Good morning.
Thank you so much for, uh, taking the time to join us, um,
this morning for this briefing, uh,
into your report, a new chapter.
How well are the changes to English
and maths going really appreciate, uh,
the time you've got with us this morning.
We've got 45 minutes, including, um, time
for a lot of questions, I imagine.
Um, so if we could kick off
with giving you the opportunity just to introduce yourselves
to everyone and, uh, maybe some opening remarks,
and then we'll, we'll go to questions.
Okay. Well, I'll begin. So, uh,
for the last two days, okay.
I'll share with my colleague Ru Kiera.
Um, I'm the Deputy Chief Executive, uh, education Review
Evaluation policy.
Uh, Ana Coto.
My name is Rebecca Di,
and I'm senior manager in at the EDUC office.
And our last colleague, we'll introduce here, Katie Welsh,
uh, who is supporting us in terms of
where your questions might potentially go.
Does Katie want to come up to the table?
I'm happy for her to sit on
that last chair there if you'd like.
Hay. Sorry. I understood Heidi. Thanks, Shannon.
Okay, well, can I, uh, begin by thanking the committee
for inviting us, uh, here this morning, uh, to share
with you our insights from our look into an exploration
of the implementation of mathematics in English.
Uh, the Arrow review studies into the
implementation of curriculum have been kind of a standard,
uh, standard piece of our work program over many years.
Uh, but this program was specifically requested
of the minister in terms of the, the provisions
that sit in the, the act.
Uh, the study looks at quite ly,
uh, the mathematics, uh,
and English rollouts at your years N to eight in,
in, uh, in our primary schools.
And we undertook the study during, uh, term four
of last year and term one and two of this year.
And, uh, in terms of Haley's work, uh,
it has been supplemented by findings from the latter part
of, of last year into the, the phonics,
the first phonics results.
Uh, this evaluation is not an
evaluation of the curriculum content,
so it's not a dissection of, of what's in there,
what makes up the curriculum,
and it's equally not a dissection of the process
to deliver and, and, uh, develop the curriculum material.
It is solely limited to how well
is it being implemented.
Uh, and,
and this is part of a multi-year study, so we'll continue
to go back and look at, uh, in subsequent years
how it's continuing to, to roll out and,
and embed and be sustained.
Uh, our questions, uh,
included what's been taught, uh, in the,
in the refreshed learning areas.
So which aspects of the curriculum are,
are being prioritized, uh,
or is it across the board, uh,
the early impacts, most particularly that we are able
to glean in terms of student outcomes?
And lastly, what's changed for parents and whanau?
Uh, as I've said,
the reforms occur in a context, uh, where,
uh, aero has been very critical of key trends
and outcomes across a ROA in literacy and numeracy.
Uh, we have been concerned both at the proportion
of students who are significantly behind
in curriculum levels,
but as importantly, the huge equity gaps
that we see in our system.
And lastly, uh, based on the OECD studies
of maths and reading and, and,
and so on, the, uh, stagnation in some of those trends
or decline that we've seen in, in some of those patterns.
Um, so that, that provides a, a significant context
along with, uh, our look into previous rollouts
of curriculum reform, such as, uh,
more recently the digital technologies curriculum rollout,
uh, to Fari, uh, to name, name a couple of of those.
Uh, I also think,
uh, as a context we have
since 2007,
and at that time, the introduction
of the New Zealand curriculum, uh, also looked at and,
and surfaced a range of concerns, uh, with
what was going on in schools
and the capacity of teachers to actually give effect to,
to their curriculum.
So they all provide a context to, to the concerns
that we are, uh, dealing with, uh, in this study.
And Ruth will go through those findings.
Uh, we have, uh, uncovered very different results to,
to what we've seen historically, uh, as, as an evaluator
and a root review officer.
And, um, at this point, I'd like to commend the ministry
because I think they have done a superb job
in the rollout of this.
Uh, they have taken on feedback
and prior to, prior to launching this reform,
uh, a shared in quite, uh, graphic detail, uh,
some of our observations from previous implementations.
Uh, but most particularly, I want
to acknowledge the teachers, uh, toki across
AA who have really, uh, gripped this up, uh,
and who were the subject of our, our work.
So with that, yeah.
Thank you. I'm happy to go to questions then.
And first one from Lawrence. Thank
You, chair. Um, just
wanna check if, uh, welcome everyone.
If Ruth, if you want to say anything
or are you happy to first go, go to
Questions? Um, sure. I mean, the, the
main thing is thank you so much
for giving us the opportunity.
This is the first of a multi-year evaluation.
Um, so it's definitely deliberately early in implementation
so that we could learn lessons, work out what's working
for teachers, what's working for students,
and adjust as we go.
So it is in that context.
So thank you for giving us the opportunity.
There are some really encouraging signs here.
Um, I could either give you a quick highlight
of the findings or go straight
to questions. Which would you prefer?
Happy to have a, some highlights of the findings. Mm-hmm.
If you'd like some quick highlights.
We'll also say there are four products from the study
online, uh, that, uh, you can go to in reference,
they include the full study, a, uh, a poster,
a very detailed technical report, uh,
and guidelines for schools, uh,
to think about in further implementation. So,
So we all got the, um,
detailed report in advance, so great.
Um, hopefully everyone's read it,
But fantastic. So just
some quick highlights, conscious of your time.
Um, very encouraging signs of improved progress in English
and maths, which against the backdrop Nick et out
is really encouraging.
So half of teachers reported achievement improving
in English and maths.
Three quarters of parents agree
that their child's making quicker progress.
We've seen rapid progress,
particularly in the phonics tests.
Um, in term one, only the third
were at where they needed to be.
And by term three it was over half.
We've reduced the number of students behind in
that phonics test in term one over half needed support in
term three, only a third.
And we've doubled the number
of students exceeding expectations.
Now, these are early days,
but they are very encouraging findings.
It has happened because schools have changed
what they teach, how they teach,
and how much they teach English and maths.
So on what nearly all schools are
implementing new curriculum.
And very positively, nine of out of 10 in English
and eight out of 10 in maths are teaching all the elements.
Now, this early on, that is a real testament
to the work that schools have done.
Um, secondly on the, how eight out
of 10 teachers have changed
how they teach English and maths.
They report change in their practice.
One of the biggest shifts is in more explicit teaching.
Two thirds of teachers, for example,
said on structured literacy.
Their teachers practice have changed a
lot in that short time.
That is a very big shift on the how much a third
of schools have increased the time they spend teaching,
reading, writing, and maths.
And one of the most encouraging findings for me was
that in some of our lower socioeconomic communities,
that had been the biggest increase in the time spent in
teaching maths with half saying they've increased the time
they're teaching maths.
Um, this has happened. We found
because the package of support the ministry put in
was highly impactful.
So eight out of 10 teachers have accessed what we call PLD,
professional learning and development in both English
and three quarters in maths.
They found it useful,
more useful than all the other PLD we've been studying at
Hero and we did this whole study early this year about
professional learning development.
So for example, on structured literacy, seven in 10 teachers
use it every day.
The training they did in terms of impact, again, hats off
to the ministry teachers
who access the maths resources worth four times more likely
to change their practice.
We have a very big data set
so we can do these kind of regressions.
Mm-hmm. Teachers who act
as the English guidance were over three times more likely
to change their practice.
And lastly, parents.
So parents know what to do and are helping their children.
So nine outta 10 parents know what to do
and are helping them at home.
Parents with different backgrounds are equally helping
and equally knowing what to do.
And that is unusual.
We normally see a bit more
of a difference depending on backgrounds education,
but parents in this one all equally know what to do
and are supporting their students at home.
And lastly, as Nick said, teachers
and leaders, nine outta 10 leaders say they know
what to do to implement it.
Nine outta 10, appointed someone to lead it.
Uh, eight outta 10 have a plan.
Now, obviously we did this review
to find out if there's anything we could strengthen.
And later in questions we can come on
to some areas which we say we do need to do a bit more.
Um, but for early days,
this is the most encouraging report we have seen on an
implementation this early on.
And it's a testament to the work of our teachers
and leaders across the country.
Fabulous. Thank you. Ruth. Um,
I think it would be com everyone would be comfortable
to hear from you on those, uh, suggested areas
of improvement before we get a questions
or do you wanna Yeah, sure. Go for
It. Yeah, go for it. Yeah.
We've got some, so three areas.
So, and that's why we did it early
to see what can we adjust?
And I know the ministry's on to these. So three things.
One, maths, as you know, maths has been a bit
of a problem, uh, in terms of teaching.
So we're not seeing the expected shift in the complexity
of maths as we go from year zero, right up the years
to up to year seven and eight.
So three quarters of teachers teach number number's,
great number's important,
but only a quarter are teaching probability a lot.
Mm-hmm. And that's not enough. This is due to three things.
One, the shift in number is big.
Um, second, New Zealand students have always struggled
with some of those basic numbers, but
thirdly, teachers lack confidence.
Some teachers in the more complex maths true.
And a previous study we did on new teachers,
you may remember a quarter primary school teachers said
that they were unprepared to teach maths.
So we are saying more support is needed to make sure
that these early encouraging signs isn't just the basics,
but as the kids are progressing, the more complex maths.
So that's area one. There's just three areas.
Uh, the second area is smaller rural schools.
So they're doing a great job.
They're making equal amounts of change,
but they're finding it harder.
Mm-hmm. So the fewer of them have got plans in place.
Um, fewer have got someone to lead it,
and they struggle to access resources and guidance.
So we've said we need a bespoke kind of program
because if you're the only, uh,
lead only teacher in the school, it's really hard.
So we've said something different needs to be put in place
for small and rural schools.
And lastly, thirdly, it's great this early
that teachers have all got the basics
and they've worked really hard on it.
But now teachers are saying to us
that they'd like more support about catching kids
up and extending them.
And that's the next, so teachers are not always sure yet how
to adapt, and that's because it's new.
So they're not quite sure what do I teach like this
and what can I change?
And particularly if they've got classes,
which we often find in New Zealand,
particularly in smaller communities
where they've thought many children
of different levels in the class
or different ages, that's more challenging to teach.
So we said again, so those are the three areas
where we are calling for change in implementation.
Um, small schools, let's do something bespoke,
more support on complicated maths.
And then lastly, let's make sure that teachers know how
to catch kids up and extend them.
And that's why we did the evaluation so early is so
that we can learn this as we go and adjust.
Fantastic. Lawrence Cook. Thank you. Uh, chair.
I have a sort of a first line of question
and I'm kind of keeping it quite broad for the time being.
Um, I want to know, thank you so much for this report.
Um, I had a read of our 160 pages. Oh wow.
We check with you will, um,
be true. What's your methodology?
Yes. Do you want me to tell you a little about
our evidence based and how we did it?
Yes, please. Yeah. Um,
because I do have some questions
around the methodological approach.
Yeah, absolutely. So, um, across all our national reviews,
we take a mixed methods methodologies where we describe it,
where we draw as much evidence together,
a bit like a jigsaw, put it together, triangulate, which is
where we look at the different
evidence and what it says together.
This was our largest evidence base of any
of our national reviews.
And that's because it's happening
to every state school in the country.
So it was really important, particularly
that we have a representative sample.
So in terms of the sample, so we survey over 6,000 leaders,
teachers, parents, and students.
We use ERO school judgments of over 400 schools.
We had over 500 interviews, over 400 phonics checks,
36 site visits
because we, we methodologically, we like qualitative as well
to understand why observe 54 classrooms, um,
use the Ministry of Education
check-ins with nine in 10 schools.
In terms of representativeness, which is one
of our key concerns is we found that leaders
and teachers we sample were from over a quarter
of schools across the country.
Parents, we sample from over nearly half a school
and they're representative of types, sizes,
locations, communities.
And then lastly, methodologically,
we also always check with experts.
We have an expert advisory group of academics
and practitioners, and we get a quality assurance also done
externally and internationally,
which happy to answer any psychological
Questions. Yeah, that'd be great. Um, because
I think
as select committee, we're no strangers
to people submitting on things.
Yeah. And the, and therefore the stats looks very different
from, you know, actual stats.
So when you are looking at the, the approach
that you're using, I'm seeing, you know, for example,
on page 13, over 6,300 survey responses,
that's also a self-selecting example
though. Wouldn't that be correct?
Um, we send it to all schools
and it absolutely schools can choose to respond.
But what we do check is it's representative.
So poor schools, um, affluent schools high,
we always over sample how high mari role schools
because we wanna make sure we've got representation.
So we make sure that it's representative.
And then when we come to eero, some of the data we use
around Eros checks, that's not self-selecting.
Yeah. Eero reviews where reviews and the ministry check-ins.
Also the ministry checks are their checks.
So in fact, mixture of things
that make sure that we're
representative. 'cause that's really critical.
Yeah. And in terms of the, and you also mentioned
before, so this report is peer reviewed?
Yeah. So we have review
by ourselves, reviewed by the ministry.
We also have the Australian education, uh,
research organization for a stands for
and they peer review as well.
And we have an expert advisory group of academics, um,
that we also ask to look at it.
'cause it's really important we get it right.
And whilst Arrow is independent
and we have robust internal processes,
we always find extra pair of eyes helps.
And, okay. Last one on this. Yep.
So if you're looking at the data and I'm hanging on,
'cause there's a specific example you
gave, which is a phonic check.
Yes. Um, so on page 85,
it says in term three 2020 5, 452 schools reported
term two to 216 and term 1 114.
So when you are looking at the cumulative data up
until term three, are you basing the term three data on the
442 or on the original progression from the 114?
So Haley will answer the questions about phonics
'cause it's the Ministry of Education test.
So the phonics check is done at the point in time
for the child at their 20 week or 40 week.
So in term one, that was children at that point in time.
The set, the set of data that we had there, we can see
that it is broadly statistically representative.
So we can look at that as a progress indicator in term two
That is there, that's not what I'm asking for.
So you have 114 report.
In term one, you have 216 reporting in term term two
and 452 reporting in term three.
But in terms of the percentage that they used to represent,
I'm guessing the percentage is,
is the percentage based on the response from all 453?
Or you're looking at progression
of only taking an sample from
that original 114 to see a progression?
Because how can you see a progression in terms
of trend if the sample size has changed
and there's different variables?
The sample is different each time
because it's, it's the point in time for the child.
What we can do is we can interrogate that data to see
that it's statistically representative
of English medium schools, which is the phonics check.
And it was each time, so
therefore it's giving you a snapshot each time
that you can monitor progress against.
Would you be able to provide us the data, let's say
for term three of the progression from term one of
that original 114 schools that reported?
So in term, from when we look at term one to term three,
what we can see is that we, there was 516 children
who were 20 weeks in term one,
and then 40 weeks in term three.
Okay. And we can look at their trajectory
of which we have shared.
And there what we can see, um, is shift in progress
for those particular children.
So we can look at that both ways.
We can follow children's project, uh,
trajectory and progress.
And then we can look at the snapshot of data, which is, uh,
representative of the company.
Okay. Thank you. Um, oh, could, could I just to that, I,
I think in terms of this transformation,
having data and having data early in the life
of a child at school is outstanding.
We've never been in this position before.
Back in the nineties, we tried
to introduce something called a school entry assessment.
It wasn't adopted.
Uh, this allows us to identify those kids
who are doing route well, really flying,
but most importantly in terms of equity concerns, those kids
who are getting off to a bad early start at school,
where teachers can adapt their practice
and really support those kids to lift.
And we've never had that.
We've had a six year net, uh, where it's
often been too late to catch those kicked up.
So I, I think as a feature of the transformation, uh,
and reform, this is a very positive feature.
And we get, we'll get much stronger as we go into it in,
in the 20, 26 year and beyond.
We're going to a, so why have we never actually done
what seems quite logical before?
Uh, I, I think part of it has been this view
that we spend the first three years settling children in.
Uh, and if I, three years is a long time.
Three years is a long time.
And if I go to, uh, so
well not statistically significant arrow
is in schools every day.
And I'll, I'll, I'll take you on a journey to a small,
in the old days called Decal one A on the
school on the East Coast.
In the first three years at that school up until a year ago,
they had a play-based curriculum
that is the children would have experiential learning,
inquiry, child directed, uh,
on introducing structured literacy.
They have had, uh, an immense turnaround in the,
the literacy levels of those kids.
More than half of those kids are now at, uh,
expected curriculum standards in the first three years
than they previously were.
That's transformational. Uh,
So is supplementary a primary?
Okay. Supplementary. Yeah.
Thank you. So in regards to lower socioeconomic areas, um,
the, um, in regards to the equity gap,
you said the signs are looking really good is Yeah.
So just want to understand if you segregate that
then are you seeing similar rate in low socioeconomic
versus high socioeconomic? Yes. Is
We saw equal improvement
and we saw equal amount of change in teachers,
what they teach, how they teach, how much they teach mm-hmm.
In low socioeconomic, high social economic.
In fact, on the, how much more in the low socioeconomic
and in terms of teachers reporting, improve progress,
parents reporting improved progress.
And in the phonics test,
which record improved progress even is equal.
And that was very unusual. It was very pleasing result.
That's Very, um, last up
on this and then we're gonna move on. Yeah. Thank you.
But just coming off that,
so when we talk about equity mm-hmm.
Uh, is everyone being boosted up in achievement
or are we closing a gap
and addressing the disparity
between particularly Maori and Pacific learners?
Are, are we seeing an extra increase there
or are we just seeing everyone lift?
Yeah. So at the moment, this was only term two
and it was only introduced in term one.
We were seeing an equal lift rather than a closing.
But what we are seeing is an equal amount
change in practice.
And that change in practice is
what we will hope would lift up.
So you don't have as many students behind.
And that's what the phonics test is showing.
There are fewer students needing support.
So if fewer children get left behind,
because structured literacy is very much you do this
and it works for all students,
the hope would be over time you would close that.
But so far we're seeing that equal lift.
Um, so primary well move to a new primary. I've got one.
In terms of this implementation
and the work that you've done in reviewing implementations
over the years, have you ever seen, um, the same
or seen a lift in achievement as significant as you've seen,
uh, this year across the country at the same time?
And what have been the, in your view, the key drivers of,
uh, the outcome that you've seen?
So, um, if Nick does the historic,
'cause he's been across many and I'll do, what do we see?
Okay. Uh, I, I have in, in all my time
as Chief Review Officer and my time working in education.
I have never seen this sort of lift in this shorter period
of time, uh, as we've seen here.
Uh, it if, if I think about,
and, uh, the general conclusion
that we've had in aero studies has been a third of schools,
uh, uh, early adopters do it well.
Uh, the core element in there has been leadership,
uh, and resources.
There's been a second group close to a third,
but it varies on studies who muddled through, uh,
and then a third who quite often
are still coming to grips with their own school environment
before they can get into implementation.
Uh, I, I'll pass to Booth in a minute,
but the sort of things that we've got is,
it has been a national priority.
We have put everything in terms of the PLD into it,
and there's been no other distractions in terms
of what's going on in the system.
Going back to your question about mathematics
and the, the commentary about mathematics,
there are resources
and guidelines for that group of teachers
who are struggling, which haven't existed previously.
Yep.
Yes. So, um, as it says, we are very impressed
by the implementation by the ministry.
So we looked in detail what are the lessons we can learn,
because we published actually a guidance on implementing
curriculum change so schools can learn this
lessons for further change.
Three lessons. One,
a well-designed curriculum can be highly impactful if it has
a clear purpose which teachers buy into
about changing students' outcomes.
It's signaled and sequenced
and it has strong leadership, as Nick said.
So it can work.
The second lesson we've learned from this is,
building teacher capability is essential.
Mm. So high quality professional learning development,
which we know is professional learning development
that builds knowledge, provides tools and techniques
and motivate students to use them
and sorry, motivates teachers
to use them can make a very big difference.
So that's the second lesson,
invest in building your teacher's capability.
And the third lesson is actually if from the outset you
deliberately look at the schools which have got more
challenges, who are going to find this harder
and provide additional resources
and tailored techniques for them
and support for their leaders, you can end up
with an equal change in all schools across the country.
So we've done a bit more detail in guidance
for good leaders about how to do implementing,
because there's some really positive lessons here about,
as Nick said, a national program tailored,
but where people are getting the support they need.
Right. Thanks. So, um,
I think Lawrence had us up first and then Mark.
Oh, okay. Do you wanna go first, Mike? Thanks.
Just thank you. So it's good to see that you're all pretty
Excited about it. I'm very,
some
of the words you've used transformational and yeah.
It's, it's really, really good to hear.
Um, just in terms of resources, you know,
the government spent millions of dollars on maths resources.
How important are those, um, resources been in terms
of helping raise students achievements
and also helping the teachers? Yeah,
So the resources, that package
of support has been critical.
Yeah. And that's, that amount of investment is one
of the reasons that we are reviewing this on
a multi-year basis Yep.
To make sure we get the maximum return for that investment.
So we found, as I mentioned in the outset, teachers
who access the math resource four times more
likely to change their practice.
Teachers who act as the English guidance over three times
more likely to change their practice.
Teachers who have access the professional learning
and development are using it in their classes every day.
So it has been a significant investment,
but we would say it is working. Yeah.
Thank you. Can I, can I just add, uh, the effectiveness
of those resources isn't the resource on its own?
No. So the danger is that teachers will just turn the page
as probably I experienced many decades ago, uh,
until two pages a day.
It's actually the support to understand the conceptual
elements of what is being covered in a, in a,
in a topic term or a, a subject term
in the pedagogical strategies mm-hmm.
To work with your group of kids. Um, yeah.
And just a little bit of further feedback,
which corroborates what you've found as well is, um,
you know, a lot of the teachers I talk to, the PLD, um,
they rate it extremely highly and said it's been brilliant
and really worthwhile.
Yeah. And they're using it because it's got, yeah.
We did a whole report about what is effective PLD
and we found that was early this year looking at
international evidence and this had the elements
that we know make a difference. Yep.
Right. Lawrence, does you also
Start Yep. Um,
just on that PRD and, and funding,
because this is kind of being the
theme of this kind of question.
Are you, I think you're absolutely right
that PRD is super important,
but we've also kind of seen that
historically kind in the history of education in RT
or where something new and shiny comes along.
Mm-hmm. Any government puts a lot of money into it.
It's not baseline. It's a one
to maximum three year, four year funding.
And then there the funding no longer exists.
Do you see that as a particular concern that, you know,
we are seeing a lot of really good, um, you know, evidence
and also results, but let's say in four years time
governments find something else and you
and shiny any government, you know,
and this no longer then becomes a priority
or the same level of resources.
'cause like Mike said, we're putting millions
and millions of dollars into it.
Do you, or would you recommend then government continuously
put millions and millions
and millions of dollars into it and make a baseline?
So in terms of your question around what,
what we think is happening, um,
though we've said this is early days
and the next shift is to embed it.
You're right. So we are seeing a shift,
but it needs to embed that change across schools.
And that's why we're going to continue monitoring
and evaluating over the following years
to see if that embedding happens.
What encourages me is the shift in the,
what leaders are doing.
So we saw leaders have got plans nine out of 10
of saying they know what to do,
they're confident they're supporting their teachers,
including new teachers coming in.
So they're embedding this change
of practice already in their schools right
from the very beginning.
So we need to continue making sure
that leaders have the tools that they need
and listening to leaders across the sector in terms
of those principles of our schools
and making sure that they've got
what they need going forward.
So, and the answer a lot will depend on
what our principles across schools tell us about whether
it's enough or whether they need more.
One more step on that. Sorry.
Oh yeah, you, You go.
Okay. I was just gonna say,
but we saw some similar things when let's say RTM RT led,
that leaders were doing all of those
because there's funding.
Um, but what happens, again, if the funding dries up,
then something, a new, um, project
or a new, uh, pe you know, curriculum,
et cetera comes into play, then the leaders will go
after the new one because that's where the funding is.
So how would you then resolve that particular,
you know, and this is not new, this is something
that's been, we've had for decades.
So, so let me, uh,
respond in, in several ways.
The first thing is, in this study, we are seeing
classroom teachers excited about the difference they're
making for their learners unknown.
And, and they're going to stay with practice that
will deliver those results.
Mm-hmm. The second is, we have said further work is needed.
Mm-hmm. We, we need to think about how we continue
to educate, uh, teachers who come in from overseas
or are coming in without the necessarily skills from, uh,
training institutes, which we previously talked about.
Uh, I think literacy
and numeracy are the two most foundational subjects
to accessing the curriculum and lifelong success.
Mm. And, and as a system, we need to continue
to focus on those, but that's not to to, you know,
dismiss other curriculum areas
and ensure that all of our, uh, tamari could get a broad
and grounded, uh, education experience.
But, but these two areas from our perspective, uh,
are critical to if kids are going to be successful in school
and if kids are successful in these areas,
they will blossom in in other areas of the
Okay. I'm, I'm just gonna
give, hold on.
I'm just gonna let everyone know where we're at.
So, um, I start from Grant,
then we've got a, a primary fulfill mine.
Mine's been covered. It's been covered.
Then Vanessa, um, then Palm Jet and then back to Lawrence.
So we've got um,
it over 10 minutes, so let's just keep it moving
Grant. So, and as
you just following off from your last comment
there about teach training, which we had done before.
So is this feedback going be putting this feedback in these
results back into the teacher training system to say,
come on, we've gotta to give the teachers,
they should be walking into the classroom feeling confident
about, you know, obviously that they can, they can teach,
uh, maths in particular, which has been a problem child, um,
had that, has that feedback gone into the system
because that to me seems critical.
Yeah. So one of the recommendations we make is
that we take this feedback
and put it into initial teacher education,
particularly about how they catch up
and extend people, how they know the core and also the basis
'cause it is critical that they arrive ready to teach.
And have you had any feedback from
the teachers council on us? Oh,
So can I say I think the teaching council has recently
consulted on changes in the teaching standards.
Those changes reflect the science of learning
a great approach around using evidence
and teaching teacher informed practice.
Uh, and in terms of mathematics
and literacy have put in prerequisites
for entrance into teacher training programs that,
That's finally Institutions.
Fantastic. Vanessa. Oh,
Thanks so much. Um,
in the report it mentions around, um, the,
some slight challenges
that have been happening on Maori medium schools.
Um, I'm just wondering in terms of the, um, materials
that are turning up, um, is there, um, is there changes
that have been put in place to enhance those?
Is that a continual like feedback loop that's happening?
So thank you for asking. 'cause we are excited for one
of our first researchers where we're able
to get into mar medium schools as well.
Um, we found, uh, lots of support, some shifting,
but yes, they do need better resources, uh,
particularly in our bilingual units,
which need something more tailored.
Yeah. And we have called for more resources
and more tailoring and the ministry is picking that up.
Right. To make sure that they've got as equal amount
of good resources that they can use.
'cause there's a lot of support for doing it. Mm-hmm.
But they're just a little bit behind in the
more tailored resources they need.
Okay. Fantastic. Thank you.
Yeah. So the rollout has happened in 98%
of schools roll out of refresh curriculum.
So just keen to know what's happening with that remaining 2%
When we get to 98%.
That's a good question. When we get to 98%,
we're pretty much like, that's pretty much all.
So it may be how they answer the questions on the day,
but, um, more genuinely when we are out there,
we found some schools have got more challenges sometimes
because of what else is happening in the school.
So some schools have got a lot of other problems
and issues that are happening in schools,
which means they're slightly behind in the rollout.
But 98% adoption
of the new curriculum is about as good
as we ever say. Yeah.
I just wanted to know if there was anything like,
like common in the remaining is anything,
We did have a real look at people who are slower adopters
and what the key elements are.
That's where we identify the challenges of more small
and isolated schools who are just finding it harder.
There was no other common consistency across
those who are finding it harder.
And there was a common consistency of those
who have gone further, which was the people
who started earlier schools, which have had less
of adjustment to doing really well.
Schools, it's a bigger
adjustment to find it a little harder.
And those who are small
and isolated, they find it the hardest.
And then there is some schools who've got other challenges.
I've, um, got us up on that.
I've been into, uh, at least one school where the resistance
to the program I would frame as
from a principal's perspective was clearly political.
Mm-hmm. In your 2%.
Um, are there any of those schools that you've seen
where the resistance is, um, ideological for want
of a better term and where your message would simply be?
The evidence clearly shows
that implementing this works get on with it and do it.
Um, I don't think we saw OG ideological resistance.
Rebecca actually did a lot of the film.
We she led the project. Mm-hmm. Okay.
Um, we saw more challenges in doing
it. Do you want talk a little bit about that?
Sure. So not
so much ideological from the school leadership.
We did see some places where teachers were a bit resistant,
but they still engage with it
because their school leadership set their expectation
for them to engage with the new curriculum,
the PLD, the resources.
We saw some really, really lovely stories of sort of
a big change in perspective for those teachers
who had given it a go
and then seen the impact on their students' achievement.
And that really changed their mind about sort the value
of putting their time
and effort into that work
to make it happen in their classrooms.
Fantastic. I just quick supple on Yeah. Great.
So you, you talked about the small rural schools.
Well, in Norfolk I've got in my electorate 93 primary
schools, a lot of them are quite small.
Um, so what exactly are you suggesting we need to do?
Because ultimately we want
to help those schools, right? Yeah.
Rebecca, do you want to talk about a little bit about
what we've said in terms of small rural schools?
Sure. So, and these small
and rural schools, often the challenges are
around having a teaching principal.
So they're spending correct some
of their time in the classroom as well as all
of the administrative and leadership. They be
The caretaker and everything else.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, so that as well as they're more likely
to have multi-year classrooms.
They've got fewer students. So they have to,
and so a lot of the challenges are
around accessing the guidance, the resources, the PLD
when you are also doing all of the work in your classroom
and accessing multiple sets of PLD
because you have multiple years
of students in your class as well.
So we have recommended
that the ministry put in place a package of support
that is targeted and tailored for those specific challenges.
And I understand that we're working on it.
Yeah. Um, particularly we're looking at, um, how do you,
can you group, um, small schools together?
Can you get some release and get a a different leader?
I do find they do talk. Yeah.
Is it, can you get them
together to do some of that provision?
'cause so much of the learning we
find is when you're with your peers.
Mm-hmm. Yeah. And if you're isolated,
you need others to bounce it off with.
That's right. So we've said look something different
and bespoke for smaller
and rural schools, talking particularly
with the Rural Schools Association
about what they think will work.
Mm. And being informed by what they say they need. Right.
Lawrence, Thank you. Uh,
two very questions.
One of them is I want to know what's not here.
So part three talks a lot about what's being taught in
English using phonics as a specific example.
But I'm not seeing any other data that is on other aspects
of the components of the English in year zero to six.
So I think we would like to, this is just not now,
but in the future we would like to see a bit more on
how is other components of that doing, not just phonic.
Um, that would be really helpful. And the second question I
have is, um,
how does this report stack a bit against the reports that,
for example, curriculum suicide produces?
Because we don't see this the same level
of increase in that report.
Cool. So I'll answer both your questions briefly.
So the full report, which I know you've read,
covers all elements of the English curriculum,
not just phonics, but the test
that we've got is for phonics.
Oh, okay. So, so the full report does cover who's teaching
all the different elements which year, which ages how much
and what teachers are seeing. But the phonics, but not
The same level of increase.
Um, we like, you
Know, we, we don't have the data in phonics
because uh, like phonics Phonics is the
only thing we've gotta test on.
Yeah. Um, so until we see, um, other,
the curriculum insights study,
which is running I think in term four
and then reported next year,
that will give you a fuller picture.
The curriculum insights study you are
referring to those results.
Uh, those were last year's
and that test will run again in this term.
Um, just checking with who. Mm-hmm.
So, so if you imagine the last Curriculum insights study
that that was taken in term four
before the changes became compulsory in term one.
And so what's gonna be really key is the Curricular Insights
progress study, which we'll be looking at English
and maths running this term.
And then the results of that I think
are about April next year
Be interesting. Oh,
I would add to that.
Uh, so the government's invested in a new assessment, uh,
tool called staff.
Smart. Smart. Yeah.
Uh, and the PAT results
and they're being bench marked as we talk here, uh,
against these elements within the curriculum.
Uh, and I think there's also some really
exciting stuff being done in the writing area in terms
of assessment, which has always been problematic in,
in assessment.
Um, talking about behavior in school. Yes.
From the research, what did you see in terms of teacher
and parent, uh, perspectives on improved behavior
or not, um, as a result of the implementation of this?
So what we saw was that students are highly engaged.
So nine out of 10 students are engaged in English and maths.
And we actually interviewed a lot of students
who are really enjoying their learning.
Um, that approved for, um, all students
and actually particular students
who are sometimes you diverse
or have additional needs, the structure really helps.
So we've got some lovely voices in the reports from students
who say they're finding it interesting.
They can see their progress, they're more engaged,
they're learning, and teachers are reporting a higher
level of engagement.
When you get higher level of engagement in primary school,
you generally get better behavior.
Um, so that's the early promising signs.
Again, it's early days, but it's very encouraging.
Not only are we seeing the progress improvement,
but we're seeing the improvement in
engagement in their learning.
Rebecca does anything you saw in terms of the students?
'cause you went out there and
interviewed and talked to them.
Um, so in the classroom observations, the students were
so engaged with what their teachers were doing.
They were really focused, they were on task.
Um, and they were excited about what they were doing.
They were excited to talk about what they were able to do
and they were able to speak really eloquently about
what they can do, what they used to be able to do,
and what their next steps are.
So they were really owning their learning alongside the work
that the teachers were doing
With them. And that's
across, um, all types of schools.
Yeah. We saw an equal improvement in
engagement across all types of schools.
Fantastic. Outstanding. Any final, um, questions?
Look, if I can just take the opportunity to say thank you
so much for coming and sharing your insight, um,
with us from this implementation.
It's really appreciated. Um, Nicholas, uh, all the best, uh,
thank you for your engagement with the thank you over.
We've really appreciated it.
And, uh, Ruth will see you
and Rebecca in two weeks time or you'll
Definitely me in two weeks time.
Yes. We'll see you in two weeks time
for See officials screening.
Yes. And, and always nice to see officials grinning.
Mike says at the end of, so, thank you so much. Fantastic.
Thanks guys. Members.